********************************************************************************
*                             Remote Control Dandy                             *
*                     English Translation Patch Materials                      *
********************************************************************************

This package contains the source materials (code/art/script) for the English
translation project for the PlayStation game Remote Control Dandy.

                    ****************************************
                    *          Build Instructions          *
                    ****************************************
                    
The build system is only set up for Unix-like systems, though none of the code 
is fundamentally dependent on this except a few filesystem functions used in the 
"discaster" disc builder tool, which currently only have POSIX implementations 
because I haven't built anything for Windows in years. In any case, if you 
really wanted to run this on Windows, you could do it with minor changes to the 
code and probably many changes to the build script.

You'll need GCC, libpng, ImageMagick (i.e. the "convert" utility), and any 
dependencies of armips.

You'll first need a disc image of Remote Control Dandy for the PlayStation. The 
Redump-verified image is highly suggested, though other images may work if 
they're a close enough match.

  Redump name: Remote Control Dandy
  CRC32:       4574c978
  MD5:         cefdeaabd493fa85ad95cd1da2855a9b
  SHA-1:       ed3a4f0c200b3c3bed121c50d427d5b6248e69ae

Now, you need to extract the data from the disc and put it where the build 
system expects to find it.

Start by extracting the filesystem from track 1 of the disc image. I suggest 
using the psximager tool "psxrip" (https://github.com/cebix/psximager) for this. 
I've had problems with psxrip not correctly extracting the non-XA files, so you 
may also just want to use something like bchunk to extract the ISO and then run 
it through 7zip to get the standard files.

  - Extract all the non-XA files from the disc in standard 0x800-byte-per-sector 
format and place them in the "dandy/discfiles" directory.

  - Extract the XA files from the disc (MUSIC.XAP, OPENING.STR, and VOICE.XAP) 
in raw-sector format, i.e. all 0x930 bytes per sector, and place them in the 
"dandy/discfiles_raw" directory. Make absolutely sure that all 0x930 bytes per 
sector are present, because some extraction programs will strip parts of this 
data by default. You may need to change the extraction settings to achieve this.
  
  - Convert CD tracks 2-5, which are audio tracks, to individual files in raw 
binary format. Pregaps should be included in the data (i.e. each file should 
begin with 150 null sectors). Rename the tracks to "dandy_02.bin", 
"dandy_03.bin", and so on up through "dandy_05.bin". Place them in the 
"dandy/discaudiotracks" directory.

With that done, all you should have to do is:

$ cd dandy
$ ./build.sh

build.sh should then build all the necessary tools and output the built disc 
image in BIN/CUE format as "dandy_build.bin" and "dandy_build.cue".

If you want to modify the project, check build.sh to see where the resources 
that get inserted into the game are coming from.

                    ****************************************
                    *              Licensing               *
                    ****************************************

See COPYING. Basically, everything by me (Supper) is GPLv3, and everything else
is under the terms of whoever wrote it.

                    ****************************************
                    *               Credits                *
                    ****************************************

                        TheMajinZenki -- Translation
                               Supper -- Hacking
                               cccmar -- Editing and Testing
                             Xanathis -- Testing

